+++
date = "2020-02-09T03:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 1"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
flights = [ "AC410", "AC1942" ]
+++

Our trip to Peru began as any normal work day did - at roughly 6:00. We got up, had a quick breakfast and showered, and then went through the list of pre-trip chores. We made sure all the electronics were turned off, turned off the water, took the trash out, and then packed up the car. We had planned on departing at 8:30 but were pulling out of the driveway several minutes early at 8:25. We had basically traffic on the drive up, and pulled into the Park n Fly Valet driveway shortly before 9:30. The shuttle was waiting for us and we were in Terminal 1 well before 10:00.

We went to the domestic Air Canada bag dropoff (as we were connecting via Montreal), printed off our bag tags, and dropped our checked bags off without any issues, and then flew through security. We found ourselves in the domestic terminal just as the clock struck 10:00; leaving us with almost 2 hours until takeoff. When we had arrived at the baggage area Todd had spotted some of his coworkers, and now that everyone was through security he went and spent some time with them. I wandered through the terminal, got a bagel and a donut from Tim's, and just generally stretched my legs while the time passed. After about an hour I ran into Todd (his coworkers had gone to eat something before the flight), and we wandered until about 11:30 when our flight was due to start boarding.

The flight boarded on time, pushed back on schedule, and was in the air without even needing to deice. The flight time was scheduled to be less than an hour, so I pulled out a book and chose to read. I started 'Thunderball' by Ian Flemming - I always enjoyed the James Bond movies however until I saw a collection of 5 Bond books on sale at Chapters it never occurred to me to read them. I got partway through during the first flight and packed the book away as we landed.

We had several hours in YUL to kill; so after walking from the domestic to the international section of the terminal Todd and I found a place to eat. We both ended up having hamburgers at a nice sit-down place; and then resumed our wandering to kill time. The Montreal airport didn't have much to do; we browsed through the duty-free and marvelled at the super expensive ice wines, but really just chatted until it was time to board. We were scheduled to board in Zone 5, and were a bit worried about finding space for our bags, but our fears were unfounded and we had no issues putting our bags in an overhead bin. The plane took off a bit later than scheduled (about 30 minutes), however it was a long flight from YUL to LIM so we just settled in.

I continued reading Thunderball while Todd enjoyed some movies on his phone. The plane was operated by Air Canada rouge so there was no in-flight entertainment system. We had known this ahead of time and ensured our phones were loaded up with content, to avoid mid-flight boredom from settling in. I finished Thunderball about halfway through the flight, and then watched some TV on my phone. The meal served on the flight was actually pretty good - I had chicken with a barbeque sauce and <TODO: what was this?>, a corn salad (which was only alright) and a chocolate brownie for dessert. Unlike normal Air Canada flights, alcohol was not provided with the meal (and I did not choose to purchase any). Overall the flight was very uneventful, though I was glad we had decided to purchase the rouge+ seat upgrades. This upgrade gave us ~15 cm of additional leg room, which made the plane feel almost roomy. It was definitely a worthwhile upgrade!

We landed in Lima shortly after midnight. We were near the front of the plane so we were some of the first people into the customs line, and it went pretty quickly. It was necessary to supply your fingerprints on entry, but other than that it was a pretty typical border crossing. We went to the luggage carousel identified for our bags, arriving there shortly before 12:45. Unfortunately, the bags took quite a long time to come, and it was about 1:30 before I was able to see my backpack show up on the carousel. Todd's suitcase wasn't far behind. It was at this point that I said goodbye to him, as his coworkers were still waiting for some bags to be delivered and I was going to my own hotel for the week.

During the wait for the suitcases I had spent a fair bit of time trying to get a data connection, however I had no success. My work data plan had roaming coverage in a number of countries, Peru included, however even though I was able to successfully register onto both Claro and Movistar neither would establish a data connection. This wasn't a big deal as I wan't planning on taking an Uber to the hotel, however it did add a wrinkle to plans in future days.

I had read ahead of time that the best choice when traveling from the Lima airport to the Miraflores neighbourhood (where my hotel was located) was to choose 'Taxi Green' as they were both licensed by the city and had fixed-price rates to Miraflores. I was able to quickly find a representative, who was able to accept my payment (only 60 soles, or about $20 CAD at the time) and direct me to a driver. The driver took me to the car and off we went. It was almost 2:00 at this point, so I was quite tired, luckily the roads were empty and we made good time. I had a bit of a conversation with my driver, who was named Carlos, where I managed to communicate some things to him in my basic Spanish and he was able to help clarify things with his basic English.

I had booked a room at the [Terra Viva Miraflores Larco](https://tierravivahoteles.com/tierra-viva-miraflores-larco/) hotel, and it took about 45 minutes to cover the distance from the airport to the hotel. A good portion of the drive took place along the Circuito de Playas - a road which ran alongside the beaches which run the length of the coast in the city. It was dark so I couldn't see much, but it was beautiful looking forward and seeing the lights of the city above the cliff on the left and the darkness of the ocean on the right. Carlos pulled up the hotel just after 2:30, and after helping me retrieve my bag wished me a pleasant vacation in Lima. I was able to check in without issue, and found my way to the room just after 2:40. I promptly fell asleep, exhausted from the long day of travel.

