+++
date = "2020-02-09T18:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 1"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

I woke up to my alarm shortly after 8:45. Breakfast was only available until 10:00, so I quickly threw on my clothes from yesterday and went up to the 8th floor where the hotel dining area was located. There was a well-stocked buffet laid out with both hot and cold items; I stocked up on scrambled eggs, potatoes, sausage and some fresh fruit. I also poured myself a large cup of hot coffee, black, and took a seat at one of the tables on the open air patio. The food was delicious and the coffee hit the spot. As I was wrapping up my plate the lady overseeing the buffet delivered two fried eggs to me - I wasn't entirely sure why as I hadn't asked for them, but I was still hungry and had no objections to eating them. I had a second cup of coffee and a glass of fresh squeezed orange juice before returning to the room.

It was just before 10:00 at this point, and I took a leisurely shower to wash the plane ride off me. I dressed for the warm weather typical of Lima at this point in the year, with a light t-shirt and shorts. I packed my camera and lenses into a backpack and filled up my water bottle before heading off. I wanted to do a bit of exploring in Miraflores, and set off along Avenido Jose Larco towards the ocean. Carlos had pointed this road out on the drive to the hotel the night before, however it looked much different in the day. The sidewalks, bike lanes and road were all busy with traffic, and after a brief 10 minute walk I found myself standing at the top of Larcomar shopping complex. I didn't realize it when I first crossed into the park at the end of Jose Larco, but it was in fact built on top of a multi-story shopping complex that is built into the side of a cliff that overlooks the Pacific ocean. I was able to see my ultimate destination (the beach) from here, however I was quite perplexed at how I was supposed to reach it. The cliff went down several hundred feet, and there was a major road (named Circuito de Playas) at its base; both of these obstacles prevented me from reaching the beach directly from Larcomar.

I took a gamble and began walking northwest along the Malecón de la Reserva, a road which followed the top of the cliff. I encountered several small parks along my walk, and was able to get some fantastic views of the ocean. After about 10 minutes I crossed the Puente Villena Rey and stopped at the Parque Sunset. I was starting to get warm in the sun, and took a quick break in the shade of a tree. As I was looking along the cliff face I noticed a path which led to the beach; a path I could reach from the park. The trail led from the park, down a fairly steep staircase that wound under the bridge. Upon reaching the road that the bridge crossed I crossed to the far side, then continued walking down and across a pedestrian bridge which led me to the Playa Makaha and the ocean!

The beaches here were not sandy; they were quite rocky. The rocks had all been smoothed by the unending waves so it wasn't terribly difficult to walk to the water, but it was definitely necessary to wear shoes. I reached in and touched the Pacific ocean, being careful not to get my feet wet. I countined walking southeast along the Circuito de Playas to Playa Redondo, where I took a break and had some water. It was after noon at this point and the sun had become quite strong. I was regretting the lack of a hat and sunscreen, and worried I was beginning to get a sunburn. I decided to turn around, and made my way back to the Puente Villena Rey where I took a few minutes to cool down in the shade of the bridge. I reviewed a map and decided to walk up Calle Bajada Balta towards Parque John F. Kennedy. The road had large trees providing shade, which helped to provide some protection from the sun. About two thirds of the way along I stopped in at Wong, a grocery store, in order to pick up a large bottle of water and some sunscreen. I applied the sunscreen to help prevent the sun from doing further damage before continuing on. Shortly after continuing on I reached parque John F. Kennedy and Parque Central de Miraflores, which are connected. I walked through the shade of the large ficus trees, and noticed a large number of cats wandering around. Apparently this is a place these cats live, and it is also known as 'Cat Park'. There was an outdoor art show also going on, which was nice to look through. I stopped at a McDonald's just past the park and ordered an ice cream cone to help cool down. I took a few minutes to enjoy the ice cream and the air conditioning of the McDonalds before I walked back to the park.

I had noticed a church on my first pass through the park, and I returned to it after my ice cream. It was called Parroquia La Virgen Milagrosa, and it had some wonderful architectural detail on its facade. I was able to put my new wide-angle lens to good use as I captured the full detail of the church. I walked past the Miraflores municipal office building, and found a small art museum open to the public attached to the rear of the office building. It was named the Sala Luis Miro Quesada Garland, and it had a couple dozen modern art pieces that I spent some time enjoying. At this point in the afternoon it was approximately 14:30, so I decided to return to my hotel for a small nap. I was still tired after the previous evening's late arrival, and wanted to be well rested for the rest of the trip. I took a quick shower to clean off the sunscreen then laid down for about 60 minutes.

I slept well and woke up feeling refreshed at 16:45. I had not eaten lunch so I was feeling quite hungry, and decided to head to Macarena. It was an Italian restaurant that had good reviews of its pizza, and it was a short walk from the hotel. I arrived as the only patron at the restaurant, but was able to order with minimal language difficulty and relaxed at an outdoor table. The food arrived quickly and was quite tasty. It didn't end up taking an hour, and I left shortly before 18:00. I decided to pick up some small snacks for the week, and walked to a Metro location on Calle Schell. The Metro was a large, two-story grocery store that was packed with people. I picked up some water, some croissants, some apples and some chocolate cookies - enough to be light snacks after class. I also purchased a small bottle of [Inca Kola](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inca_Kola) - a pop of some sort that was a bright yellow. It was made by Coca Cola, and appeared to be something popular with locals (I had seen others walking around with bottles of it during the day). I decided to pick a bottle up to taste it. I was not far from my hotel, and arrived back shortly after 18:30.

Upon arriving back at my hotel I decided to relax a bit and watch some Netflix. I also opened the bottle of Inca Kola and tried it. It was quite sweet, and vaguely reminded me of artificial banana flavour - I wouldn't want to drink a lot of it, but in a pinch it certainly hits the spot. I spent some time later in the evening reviewing sites in Lima to visit and began planning my afternoons for the week out. I wrote up some of my thoughts from the day, and headed to bed shortly fater 22:00.

