+++
date = "2020-02-18T20:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 10"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

Today was the beginning of our journey to visit Machu Picchu. We got up early, packed our bags and checked out of the hotel at 9:00. We left our bags in storage at the hotel, as we were only going to be away for 1 night, and wouldn't be able to bring our large suitcases with us. We walked down to the Inca Rail office in Cusco, a short 10 minutes from our hotel, where we checked in and then relaxed in their waiting area for our busses to arrive.

Getting to Machu Picchu is a bit tricky - there aren't a lot of options. One can do a variant of the Inca trail hike, however that takes up to 4 days, and isn't available in the month of February (they perform trail maintence then). Instead, one can take a train to the town of Aguas Calientes, which is a small village that acts as a sort of 'base camp' to the ruins of Machu Picchu itself. We chose to do the train. There are several rail options; you can take Peru Rail, Inca Rail or the Hiram Bingham train. The last option is a super luxury choice, which we didn't select. We ended up choosing Inca Rail since they had bus service from downtown Cusco to their train facility in Ollantaytambo - normally Peru Rail has a train that goes from Poroy (just outside Cusco) direct to Aguas Calientes, however during our trip there was track construction that meant the train to Aguas Calientes on both Peru Rail and Inca Rail would depart from Ollantaytambo. Choosing Inca Rail gave us the option of being on a train which had an open-air carriage to take photos of the scenery from.

We were assigned to the second bus, and pulled away from the Inca Rail office right on time, several minutes before 10:00. The trip from Cusco to Ollantaytambo took just shy of two hours, and the views along the way were quite scenic. Even though it was the middle of summer in Peru the hills were a verdant green, and everything looked quite pretty. The roads were quite bumpy, but luckily nobody got car sick. We arrived at the Ollantaytambo train station around 11:50, and then spent about 20 minutes relaxing in the waiting area. We were given the heads up at 12:15 that we could begin boarding the train, and walked down from the waiting area to the tracks. We got onboard the first of 2 carriages in their 360° train, and found our assigned seats. We were sitting on the right hand side but facing forward, which was nice. The two gentlemen in the seats facing ours were, interestingly, from Toronto!

The train departed the station a few minutes late, but we were on our way around 12:35. The rail line followed Urubamba River all the way from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes, which gave us some great views of the river valley. The train service included a snack and a beverage, and after they were served we were able to head back into the open-air carriage and take some photos without worrying about the glare from the glass. It was about 30 minutes into the train ride when we wre able to do this. Todd and I spent about 10 minutes in this car together, but he was finding it a bit crowded and decided to return to his seat. I stayed, snapping photos when possible. The car also had a small musical group set up, and shortly after Todd left they began playing some music to help pass the time. The car ended up being a bit crowded, which made taking photos a bit difficult, but everyone was understanding and it wasn't too bad.

The train ride was scheduled to last for about 90 minutes, and about 10 minutes before we were arriving in Aguas Calientes I went back to my seat and enjoyed the views with Todd. We pulled into the station shortly after 14:00, and were greeted by someone from our hotel who had a placard with my name on it. We introduced ourselves, and he showed us to the hotel. We were staying in the [Retama Machu Picchu](https://retamamachupicchu.com/), which is across the Vilcanota river from the train station. It was a very nicely appointed hotel, and we were very happy with our room. After checking in we had a quick break, and then decided to purchase our bus tickets for the next morning.

The town of Aguas Calientes is the termination of the Inca Trail, however the ruins of Machu Picchu are still a bit of a ways from Aguas Calientes. There are two possible ways to reach the ruins - one is to hike up the side of the mountain, and the other is to take a bus from Aguas Calientes. We decided the bus option was best - it was going to be a 30 minute bus ride, and given that the hill is quite steep the hike would have likely been several hours at best. We purchased our tickets, dropped them off at the hotel, and then decided to wander around the town for a bit.

We spent about an hour or so wandering throug the town, seeing the market, the hot springs, the various statues and carvings located at different intersections of the roads, etc. After about an hour we were starting to get hungry, and it was just after 17:00, so we went looking for a place to eat. We settled on a resturant named [Tasty Machupicchu](https://www.facebook.com/TastyMapi) that was reasonably well-reviewed on Google Maps. We had a good meal - we both had burgers which were tasty (as their name suggested it would be!). We were at the restaurant for about 45 minutes, and left shortly after 18:00.

We explored the town a little bit more, wanting to do a bit more exploring before returning to the hotel. We wandered down to the train station, and were able to watch a PeruRail train depart and an IncaRail train arrive. We returned to the hotel shortly before 19:00, and spent the rest of the evening relaxing. Todd read while I watched some Netflix. We turned in shortly before 21:00.
 
