+++
date = "2020-02-22T22:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 14"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

This was the last full day of our trip! We had a leisurely morning; we woke up around 8:30, showered, and had a quick breakfast in the hotel room. Our day plan was to visit the Plaza de Armas in Lima, and so shortly after 9:30 we left the hotel and called an Uber to take us downtown. There wasn't much traffic, and we arrived at the Plaza de Armas shortly after 10:00.

Roads for several blocks around the Plaza de Armas were closed to traffic, so our Uber dropped off us at the closest intersection and we walked the last couple blocks to the plaza. We entered the plaza from the south east, and were greeted with a large, open square with a large fountain in the middle. The sun was out, and it was a gorgeous day to visit. We walked around to the north side of the fountain, in order to get a view back towards the Cathedral of Lima. There was also a multi-coloured Lima sign in the middle of the plaza that we wanted to get a better look at. There were a number of tourists about, along with a number of police officers standing in groups, holding riot shields. The residence of the president of Peru was on the far side of the plaza, so we assumed the police officers were acting as a form of security. We wandered around the plaza for a bit before heading over to the Cathedral of Lima to get a closer look.

As we started walking up the steps towards the cathedral we noticed a crowd of people near the entrace who were dressed in formal clothing, and as we got closer we saw a group of ladies who appeared to be bridesmaids. We assumed that there was going to be a wedding at the cathedral later in the morning. We got closer and saw that a service was already taking place in the church - we decided not to go in and interrupt the service so we continued walking along. On the north side of the cathedral there is the Archbishop's Palace of Lima, which we decided to tour through. The Archbishop's Palace was built as the home and office of the Archbishop, and was built as a two story structure with a grand staircase in the middle linking the two floors together. There was a huge skylight in the roof bringing a lot of light into the middle of the house, and it was quite an impressive view when we first walked in. We started touring through the first floor, which had a collection of a number of pieces of Catholic art from the viceregal period. After completing our tour of the first floor we walked up to the second floor, and first entered into the chapel which was set at the back of the main staircase. Even though the Archbishop lived here, and it was right beside the cathedral of Lima, there was still a chapel with benches set up for worship at the back of the building! Once we saw the chapel we toured through the rest of the rooms on the floor. Unlike the first floor, which was dedicated to showing off various pieces of art, the second floor was set up as if it was still the home of the archibishop. Each of the dozen or so rooms on the floor had original furniture set up, with several offices, a large dining room, and a few sitting rooms decorated. It was an interesting way to view how the building would have been used in previous centuries. There were no bedrooms setup, which I found interesting - I don't know where the archibishop would have slept. Also notably absent were washrooms - that may have been an astetic choice however.

We spent about an hour touring the Archbishop's Palace, and towards the end we started hearing music coming from the square. We walked out of the palace at 11:45, and realized we were hearing a military band that was performing just inside the gates of the presidential palace. Every day, at noon, the Peruvian military performs a changing of the guard ceremony in the courtyard of the palace - we were planning on watching the ceremony but didn't realize that it was accompanied with music! We walked towards the gates of the palace, and found a place with a good view of the ceremony. The band played music for about 10 minutes, then very precisely marched from the middle of the courtyard to one side. Shortly after, right at noon, the ceremony began with two members of the guard marching out of the presidental palace. They marched in a very ceremonial (i.e. impractical) fashion, with what appeared to be high kicks every time they took a step forward. After making their way to the centre of the courtyard a man looking to be a high ranking military official walked out of the middle of the palace onto a raised patio, from which he was able to watch the ceremony. The guards then marched out of the two wings of the palace, using the same ceremonial march. This was all set to music, and by the time the ceremony was complete it was 12:15. The sun had come out shortly after the ceremony started, and we were quite hot. I can't imagine how uncomfortable the members of the guard were, dressed in their full uniforms with heavy-looking helments.

We crossed the plaza and got ourselves a quick lunch at the [Sanguchería El Chinito](https://www.elchinito.com.pe/). This sandwhich restaurant was on the corner of the plaza we had entered from, and it was well reviewed. We both ordered their chicharron sandwiches - sliced pork and roasted sweet potatoes on a crispy roll. The restaurant was full so we had to order the sandwiches to go - we ate them on a bench in the middle of the plaza.

After we finished our lunch we toured through the historic Catedral de Lima. The cathedral was a large building that had a number of chapels on either side of the nave. Some of these chapels had crypts below them that were visible. At the back right of the cathedral was a crypt that you were able to walk down into - there were three rooms connected to each other that one could look at. The roof was quite low in the crypt - it was necessary to duck down to get into the first room and the third room had an entrance that wasn't more than a metre high. In the middle of the cathedral, below the santuary, was a larger crypt that held the remains of Francisco Pizarro, the Spanish conquistador that led the expeditions that conquered Cusco, led to the downfall of the Incan empire, and was the man who founded the city of Lima. The far side of the cathedral had several rooms with additional Catholic artwork that we toured through.

We spent about an 75 minutes at the cathedral before returning to the plaza. We walked for about 10 minutes to reach our next destination - the Basilica de San Francisco. We arrived shortly before 14:00, purchased our tickets and waited for the next English tour to start. You aren't allowed to tour the Basilica de San Francisco alone, which was a bit disappointing, but we only had to wait a few minutes before the next tour started. Our guide took us through several parts of interest in the Basilica - it was still actively used by the Franciscan friars living in Lima as a place of habitation, worship and research. We were able to see the library here - it was filled with a number of old books written in a variety of languages (including some pre-Columbian Peruvian languages). We continued on to the most unique feature of this church - the elaborate underground catacombs. We learned as we walked through the catacombs that they had originally been built as a number of independent crypts, however an earthquake in the early days caused damage to walls between some of the original crypts. As they were recovering from the earthquake it was decided to join the crypts together to provide additional space for burials, and today these elaborate interconnected crypts are believed to hold the remains of tens of thousands of former residents of Lima. It was interesting to talk throug the catacombs - the majority of the bones on display are skulls and femurs since they take the longest to break down - the smaller bones had mostly decomposed when the catacombs were opened for public viewing several decades ago.

Our tour through the Basilica de San Francisco took about 45 minutes; and after we caught an Uber back to our hotel. We arrived there around 15:30, where Todd decided to take a nap. I took a walk around our hotel - there was a park which interconnected the area by our hotel to the MALI park I had visited the previous week. I spent about an hour wandering through the gardens before I returned to the hotel. Todd had finished his nap and wanted to go for a swim, so we went down to the hotel pool for a bit. The weather had gotten a bit windy by this point, and the sun was obscured by some clouds, so we only stayed out on the pool deck for about 30 minutes before returning to the room. We spent a bit of time relaxing in the hotel before going for dinner.

Our hotel was right beside a large mall, and so we wandered down through the outdoor food court to find something to eat. It was shortly after 17:00, but we wanted to have a quick dinner before we took a pre-flight nap. We ended up settling on a McDonalds that was a few minutes from our hotel. We ate a quick dinner then went back to the hotel, where we repacked our bags and got ready for our flight home.

We needed to leave the hotel at 1:00 the next morning to make it to the airport in time for our 4:30 flight, so we went to bed just before 19:00 to get a few good hours of sleep in.
  
