+++
date = "2020-02-21T22:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 13"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

This was our last day in Cusco. We got up at 7:00, showered and packed, then checked out of the hotel around 8:40. We were taking a cooking class this morning, and so were on a bit of a schedule. Unfortunately the weather had turned, and it was raining outside, but we had luckily heard the rain before we left our hotel room and were both wearing rain coats. We left our large luggage with the concierge and then walked 10 minutes to the San Pedro market.

We met our instructor, Chef Ricardo, at the market right at 9:00. He took us on a tour of the market, focusing on the culinary sections (as the market had a large section of souvenirs and other tourist-type things). There was a large variety of ingredients - an aisle that just had raw chickens (whole, plucked chickens, in addition to chicken parts); an aisle with fish on one side and fresh cheeses on the other, a number of aisles with vegetables, etc. As we were going through the different aisles Ricardo would explain the significance of certain things to the dishes we would be cooking, as well as describing common culinary choices in Peru. He described that families go to the market quite frequently - 4 or 5 times a week wouldn't be considered a lot; though he did mention this was mostly to pick up some ingredients like meats that don't keep well, and larger trips to pick up fruits and vegetables may only happen once or twice a week. The back corner aisle of the market was dedicated to the 'odds and ends' from the cow, and as we walked through it we saw tables containing just cow lungs, hearts, hooves, heads, etc. It was quite an experience to see all the parts of the cow being used, however I was glad we weren't cooking beef for lunch. We spent just over an hour at the market, and during our visit Ricardo was buying a bunch of ingredients that we would be using in our dishes.

We left the market shortly after 10:00 - the rain hadn't let up, so we quickly walked the two blocks separating the market from the cooking studio. Once we arrived at the studio we quickly got washed up, put our aprons on, and had our first dish described to us! We were starting the class with a passionfruit pisco sour, and Ricardo walked us through the ingredients and the steps. He took this opportunity to talk a bit about pisco - its history, the different types of pisco, etc. We each made a cocktail, and while it was a bit early to be drinking the passionfruit really cut the alcohol and it tasted just like a fruit drink!

The next item on the menu was fish ceviche. I had already had several different types of ceviche on this trip, and was excited to learn the proper way to make one. As we walked through the steps I realized there are quite a number of different variants - the version we made had caramelized sweet potatoes as a base (which was a first for me), as well as being served with bits of diced avocado. We used tilapia as the fish, which was nice as we could easily recreate this dish at home. It only took about 10 minutes to prepare the dish, and we got to eat it before the next dish started. It was quite tasty, definitely one of the better ceviche's I'd had on the trip!

The next dish on the menu was a quinoa risotto. This dish used a combination of white, red and black quinoa, which was something I had only learned about during our walk through the market. I'd cooked with white quinoa before, but I hadn't realized there were other colours. The major difference between the colours is the amount of protein in the quinoa, which was neat to learn. Ricardo had previously boiled the quinoa so the risotto only required that we mix the ingredients together - he observed if we were to do this from scratch it would take about 30 minutes. With the quinoa precooked it only took about 15 minutes or so. We finished the dish with some spinach and a soft-boiled egg in the middle, which was a tasty addition. It was really a nice vegetarian dish I'm thinking about serving to others - the only difficulty will be finding the yellow Peruvian chili paste in stores back in Canada. Once we had plated everything we sat down and ate this dish.

The final dish of the meal was a Chirimoya mousse parfait. We started by separating the seeds from the pulp of a chirimoya, then mixed it in with some cream to make a mousse. While we were eating the previous course Ricardo had been candying some almonds, and while we were mixing the cream with the chirimoya he had been letting the candied almonds cool. He took them and crushed them up using a mortar and pestle, which we then sprinked over the mousse. We placed the mousse on top of some other fresh fruits, and then ate our final course. Overall we were cooking for about 2.25 hours - we left the cooking school shortly after 12:30 stuffed.

The rain was still coming down lightly, so we walked quickly to our next site of the day - the Iglesia de San Francisco. Located just minutes from the cooking school, this church was built in the late 1500's and was reconstructed after a large earthquake in 1650. Used by the Franciscans as a base for their missionary works in Cusco, the church has a large sanctuary. At the back there is seating for the choir located on the second story - the seats for the choir were carved from cedar and had carvings of 93 different saints behind the choir seats. The church also had a large courtyard, and a large painting spanning the staircase between the first and second stories. There were a pair of crypts that stored human remains - the church was used as a cemetary for a number of years in the 17th and 18th centuries. There was also a small library with a number of old books - one interesting book on display showed some music however it used a historic method of representing musical notes called [neume](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neume) vs. the typical 5-line staff notation used today. This was something Todd remembered learning about in his music theory class, but hadn't seen in person before. This particular church requested that no photos be taken inside, so I don't have anything to show, but it was a neat place to visit and I would recommend a stop.

After we left the Iglesia de San Francisco it was about 13:30, and the rain was starting to let up. We decided to visit one more historic site in Cusco, and so we walked over to Qorikancha. This site was the location of one of the most important temples in the Incan empire - it's name means 'The Golden Temple' in Quechuan (the language of the Incan empire, and still used in Peru today). This temple was built in a similar style to Saqsaywaman, however only equally-sized blocks were used so the effect was much more pronounced. As a temple dedicated to the sun god the Incans used a significant amount of gold, decorating the walls with thin plates of gold, and placing a number of golden statues in the courtyards. When the Spanish conquered Cusco they took all the gold from the temple and demolished part of it, errecting the Santo Domingo Convent on top of it. Touring through the Santo Domingo Convent it is possible to see severall well-preserved Incan building foundations, in addition to the Catholic building built on top. This convent, much like the Iglesia de San Francisco, had a sanctuary with a large choir at the back on a second floor; it also had a large courtyard off to one side of the church. The courtyard didn't have as many gardens or trees as the Iglesia de San Francisco, it was instead paved with stones and had a single fountain in the middle. The convent was also the site of a small art museum; showing off a number of 16th and 17th century Catholic paintings. The back of the convent had a large garden that was intertwined with the foundation of the old Incan temple, and the rain had let up so we were able to walk through the gardens and admire the building in the sun. We spent about 2 hours at Qorikancha, and left shortly after 16:00.

After leaving the temple we walked back to our hotel and retrieved our bags. The hotel organized a cab for us, and shortly after 16:30 we were heading to the Cusco airport. Traffic was a bit busy as we were leaving the historic downtown, but it opened up as we got closer to the airport and arrived shortly before 17:00. We checked in without issue, but had to wait for about 15 minutes in the bag drop line before we could clear security. After clearing security we found ourselves in the terminal area - there were only 4 gates and so the terminal was the smallest I'd seen in a while. We found some seats and we both read while we waited for our plane. Boarding began shortly after 19:00, and we took off a few minutes behind schedule at 20:00. I continued reading on the hour long flight back to Lima, while Todd rested.

After landing and taxiing in Lima we disemarked the plane through a set of airstairs. LATAM apparently didn't use skybridges for all their flights; and we had to wait in a bus for the rest of the passengers and crew to deplane before we could go to the terminal. Luckily, once we arrived at the terminal our bags were waiting for us, and we were out of the terminal around 21:30. We took a cab to our final hotel of the trip, the [Sheraton Lima](https://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/limsi-sheraton-lima-hotel-and-convention-center). It took about 30 minutes to make it to the hotel from the airport; thankfully there wasn't any traffic so the drive went smoothly. We had no issues checking in, and quickly fell asleep after a long day.

