+++
date = "2020-02-19T20:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 11"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

We woke up early this morning - the alarm was set for 5:45, however I woke up several minutes before it was due to go off. We had a bit of a timeline to adhere to, so after getting up, getting ready and having a quick breakfast we were downstairs and checking out of our hotel at 6:45. We left Todd's bag at the hotel, but brought mine (as it had several camera lenses I wanted to have access to). We walked down to the pickup point for the Machu Picchu busses and were in line shortly before 7:00.

We had tickets which granted us access to Machu Picchu starting at 8:00, and when we had purchased our bus tickets the day before the agent suggested that we wanted to be in line by 7:00. As we stood waiting it was clear why - a fair number of people were lining up behind us as time passed by. The Ministry of Culture had someone going along the line confirming people had the proper tickets for the day, while staff of the bus company were confirming people had the right bus tickets. Right at 7:20 the line started moving, and we made it onto the second bus that was heading up.

The bus ride took about 30 minutes to reach the entrance of the Machu Picchu complex. The bus wasn't able to go more than about 30 km/h - there was a large digital display showing the bus speed at the front for everyone to see (not really sure what that was about). The drive went along a road that had about 13 switchbacks - from the time the bus crossed the Urubamba River to the time it reached the complex it was only going up. Luckily the bus had a good suspension system and it wasn't too bumpy. We arrived at the Machu Picchu entrance gate at about 7:55, and lined up with everyone else who had 8:00 access tickets. They were quite precise about the time - nobody got in until my phone showed 8:00. It took a few minutes for the line ahead of us to make it through, as they scan your ticket and confirm your identity using your passport (much like boarding a plane), however by 8:05 we were inside.

After a short walk along a tree-covered path we were able to get our first unobstructed look at the complex at the Casas de los Guardianes. We continued walking along, climbing some steep rock stairs, until we next reached Casa del Guardián de la Roca Funeraria. This viewpoint gave a fantastic view of the entire complex below, with Huayna Picchu rising magestically in the background. This is also where you can first start to make out the ruins at the top of Huayna Picchu, and it became apparent what we had signed up for when we purchased the option to do that hike. We looped around towards the Inca bridge, but turned back when it was clear that was going to take a fair bit of time to complete.

We continued on to the Puerta de la Ciudad, which was when the ruins started resembling more of a town. We continued along through the quarry with its randomly placed stones to the Plaza Sagrada, which is believed to be the site of the ancient city centre. Right beside the Plaza Sagrada is the Templo de las Tres Ventanas, which is one of the more recognizable pieces of architecture on the site. It was about 9:20 at this point, and so we decided to continue on.

The next major site we visited was Intihuatana, a high point in the complex that is believed to have been used as a solar observatory. We continued down from the tower and walked to the Plaza Principal where we stopped to look back at the complex. We continued on, reaching the Roca Sagrada shortly after 9:30. The Roca Sagrada was the site of a large stone, seemingly inserted into the earth like a coin into a coin slot, which had particular significance to the Inca people. There were two large stone structures beside this stone, and we stopped here for a short break.

The next phase of our trip, the hike up Huayna Picchu, was scheduled to start at 10:00, and the entrance to the hike was right beside the Roca Sagrada. This was basically at the opposite end of the complex from the entrance, and we decided we didn't want to walk all the way back to the entrance to get a drink or use the washroom before beginning our ascent. At 9:45 the agent opened the gate, and we were able to start the hike about 15 minutes early. The sun was out, and it was starting to get warm, but luckily the mountain shaded us for the majority of the walk.

Calling the climb up Huayna Picchu is a bit incorrect, as the vast majority of the time you are climbing a set of stone steps that the Inca placed on the side of the mountain. The steps were quite steep, and some of the steps were quite high, and it wasn't long into the climb before both Todd and I were slowing down. We could both feel the effects of the altitude, and it made the hike a lot more difficult than it would have been otherwise. We kept up a good pace, however, and were able to reach the base of the ruins on the Huayna Picchu mountain at about 10:25. These ruins aren't the end of the climb, however they do give you the option to stop and take some fantastic photos back of Machu Picchu. The trail itself is not a great place to take photos due ot the trees and vegetation whose growth obscures the view of the complex. We reached the top of Huanya Picchu shortly before 10:45, and spent the next 10 minutes or so looking around, taking some photos, and catching our breath. The views were spectacular, and it was possible to see all the mountains in the range thanks to the height of the mountain we were standing on,

We started down shortly after 10:50. We were surprised to find that the first part of the descent requires climbing down through a very narrow opening into a cave, which then leads out to other ruins. I hadn't read about this during the research I'd done for the trip, but we both made it through. I do have to say, however, that it was a bit of a squeeze, and I can imagine some people finding it difficult to go through. We made it back down in about 50 minutes; it was about 11:45 or so when we returned to where the trail splits. Here we climbed up <TODO: find name>, and it took about 15 minutes to reach the top. This mountain was deserted - we didn't see anyone else on it. We were able to get a clear view of the entire Machu Picchu complex, though it didn't really add anything we hadn't already seen on the hike up Huayna Picchu. We came back down and signed out at the ranger's station at about 12:15.

From here we rejoined the normal loop - walking past the sacred rock we continuned on to the main dwellings, passing through the Grupo de las Tres Puertas, Intimachay, and others. We spent another hour and a half or so exploring this area, taking in the ruins. As time got later in the day there were some dark clouds that rolled in, and around 1:30 or so a light rain started to fall. We were pretty much done with seeing the complex by this point, and started to head for the exit. We left Machu Picchu a few minutes after 14:00, having spent just over 6 hours in the complex. It was breathtaking and very enjoyable.

We took a bus back down the mountain, arriving back in Aguas Calientes shortly after 14:30. Our train didn't depart until 19:00, so we decided to find a restaurant and spent a bit of time sitting inside. We ended up eating at a restaurant named [Full House](https://www.fullhousemachupicchu.com.pe/), where I had their lomo saltado and Todd had a chicken fried rice dish. We both really enjoyed our meals. We then relaxed in the restaurant, and I had a couple of beers. We settled up and left the restaurant shortly before 17:00, and then wandered through the Aguas Calientes market for about 15 minutes. We found a bench downtown and Todd read while I watched some Netflix for an hour and a bit.

We made our way to the train station for 18:30, found our platform, and waited for our train to arrive. We boarded at 18:45, found our seats, and got comfortable. The train departed right on schedule at 19:00. The train ride back took place in the dark, so instead of looking outside I continued watching Netflix while Todd napped. The train pulled into Ollantaytambo at about 20:40; we found our bus, and with everyone onboard we left shortly after 21:00. The bus ride took just under two hours, and we were back at the IncaRail station in Cusco just before 23:00. We walked back to hotel we had stayed in previously, the Costa del Sol, checked in, got our bags, and fell into bed just after 23:30. It had been a long but very enjoyable day!

