+++
date = "2020-02-10T21:30:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 2"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

One of the major activites I had scheduled on my week in Lima was a Spanish class. I had been learning Spanish on Duolingo for several years prior to the trip, and I decided to work on my pronunciation and confidence as a Spanish speaker by enrolling in a half-day, one-week class. I read a number of reviews prior to the trip, and ended up registering with [Peruwayna](https://www.peruwayna.com/). I needed to arrive at 8:30 on my first day, and so I set my alarm for 7:00 and woke up with plenty of time. I got cleaned up, had breakfast, and walked to the school; arriving a few minutes before 8:30. The hotel I was staying in was located just one block away from the school which made for a very convenient commute.

The school day started with a short intake interview, where I spoke in Spanish with one of the teachers so that he could assess my level of fluency. I was initially placed in the introductory class, and at 9:00 met the teacher and two other students. The teacher started with a short review of the conjugation of several irregular verbs, and then we began multiple speaking exercises. The time went quickly, however I did feel that I was just reviewing a lot of existing concepts. There was a scheduled break at 11:00, and during this break the teacher spoke with me and suggested I may be better suited to the next class. I agreed, and after the break I joined a different class.

The class I joined had more people - a total of 5 students, including myself. They had also started the day by reviewing the conjugation of irregular verbs, however they were using them in much more complete sentences and covering material at a much better pace. It was great to be hear other people who were learning speak at the same pace as me, and the teacher was really good at picking up on small mistakes and correcting them as necessary. She used a whiteboard to write up any words we wanted to use but didn't know how, and by the end of the class I had covered a half dozen pages in notes. Class ran until about 13:15; after which time I went back to the hotel. I had a quick lunch in the hotel with the supplies I had picked up the day before, then packed my bag and called an Uber. My destination for the afternoon was the [Museo Largo](https://www.museolarco.org/en/).

The museum was about 30 minutes away from the hotel; in the daytime I was able to see more of the city of Lima as we drove from the Miraflores neighbourhood to the Pueblo Libre neighbourhood that the museum was located in. The route took us through some neighbourhoods that definitely looked less well off; however the neighbhourhood around the museum had a number of nice houses to look at. I arrived shortly after 15:00 and purchased an entrance ticket, then walked into the museum. The museum showcases the pre-Columbian Andean civilizations in Peru, and as I walked through I learned about the Nazca, Paracas and Moche cultures. There area a number of ceramic items, gold and silver items, as well as a few textiles contained in the exhibit, and it was quite interesting to view them all. I had not studied Ancient Peru in school, so much of the knowledge here was new to me. I spent about 90 minutes viewing the exhibits in the main building, as well as looking at their collection of pottery in an attached room. Afterwards I walked across the courtyard to a separate building to visit their collection of erotic pottery. I only spent about 15 minutes here, however the level of detail contained in their erotic pottery was impressive. I left the museum and called an Uber shortly before 17:00.

The Uber picked me up after a several minute wait, and then drove me through rush hour traffic back to the Miraflores neighbourhood. I had not asked to be dropped off at the hotel - instead I selected a restaurant I was planning on having dinner at. The Peruwaya school had provided all the students with a list of recommended restaurants, and I chose a restaurant specializing in Peruvian food named [Bodegon](https://www.elbodegon.com.pe/). I arrived shortly after 17:30, and easily got a table. I ordered a Pisco Sour to drink, and after learning my first choice was currently unavailable asked the waiter for his favourite dish. He chose the Ajiaco Limeño Con Panceta Al Cilandro which I was happy to give a try. The drink arrived several minutes after I had placed my order, and was quite tasty. I sipped it while I took in the ambiance of ththe restaurant. Not more than 10 minutes later my food arrived, and I was greeted by a large plate of chopped potatoes and cheese with a bright yellow, curry-looking sauce, topped with three large slices of grilled then crispily fried pork. It smelt and looked delicious, and on my first bite I wasn't disappointed. The waiter also brought a small bowl of white rice with the dish that I mixed in slowly as I ate, but as I continued I stopped adding the rice as I didn't feel it was necessary. It was a filling dish, and by the end of the meal I was stuffed. It was very reasonably priced, as well!

I left the restaurant about an hour after I arrived, and began walking south towards my hotel. The path back took me by the Inka and Indian markets, which I slowly walked through. These craft-style markets had a large number of vendors selling a variety of clothing and decorative items, however I wasn't really interested in any souvenirs at the time. I was looking for a hat, however I only saw more expensive sombrero-style hats in the markets. I ended up choosing to keep looking, and made it back to the hotel around 19:15. I spent the next hour or so doing homework, then watched a bit of Netflix and was in bed shortly after 22:00.

