+++
date = "2020-02-11T21:30:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 3"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

I was up at 7:00 again this morning, and had a relaxing breakfast in the hotel before walking over to Peruwayna. Class wasn't scheduled to start until 9:00 this morning, however I arrived about 15 minutes early and spent the extra time reviewing my notes from the day prior.

The class started right at 9:00, and the first topic of conversation was what everyone had done after class the day before. It was a bit challenging at first to find the right words (and remember the proper past tense conjugations) however things got easier as the conversation progressed. After this inital conversation we reviewed the homework we had been given, and this ended up taking most of the first half of the morning. Our task had been to come up with two questions for each of the 6 verbs we had learned the day before, and the class progressed as one person would ask a question and the rest of the class would ansewr it. The next person at the table would ask a question of theirs, and things would continue. This was a really natural way of engaging with conversation and also learning a number of new words when answering the questions. I took several pages of notes as new words were introduced!

The second half of the morning covered the verb 'gustar' and how to talk about things that you and others like. We formed more questions on the fly and continued the practice of asking and answering questions with the group. We finished the day by learning about how different countries have different ways of identifying their people (for example, Canadian in Spanish is canadiense, while Peruvian in Spanish is peruano/a), and were given the homework of writing up 10 different nationalities and describing them in some form.

I left the class shortly after 13:00, and went to my hotel for a quick lunch. I then picked up a snack for Todd and dropped it off at his hotel, as he wasn't feeling well and didn't feel up to leaving the room. We chatted briefly, and then I headed out for the afternoon. I wanted to visit the Barranco neighbourhood, and walked there from Miraflores.

My first stop in the neighbourhood was the [Museum of Contemporary Art](http://maclima.pe/) at the northern end of Barranco, and it was only about 20 minutes away from my hotel. I arrived quite warm, as the sun had come out and it was easily in the mid 20's Celcius by this point. I paid my entrance fee and walked into the first of two galleries. The first gallery contained an exhibit demonstrating the use of reclaimed materials (such as dirt and newspaper) to construct a series of person-sized concentric circles arranged almost like a maze. The materials were mixed into the dirt and poured into a series of moulds, which then harded and the moulds were removed, leaving the dirt and materials standing alone. There was a viewing platform above the structure which let you look down on people exploring it from within. It was interesting to see, but there really wasn't a lot there to experience, so I went outside and took some photos of the building and its colourfully painted murals. I went into the second gallery and saw the other exhibit, which was a building-sized print of a forest. I was actually a bit disappointed by the museum - I was only there for about 30 minutes but I felt I saw everything there was to see.

I continued walking south, doing my best to stay out of the sun and in the shade of the buildings or trees. I had not yet found a hat, and so I was cautious of my head getting further sunburned. Shortly after leaving the Museum of Contemporary Art I decided to take off my outer shirt and wrap it around my head to help protect it - the sun was quite strong this day. I walked through the neighbourhoods, looking at the houses and getting georgeous views of the ocean from the road. It took me about 20 minutes of walking before I arrived at Parque Federico Villarreal and the Iglesia La Ermita. This park and church are next to a local landmark - the Puente de los Suspiros. This bridge was originally constructed in 1876 and is still made of wood today. I had learned in class earlier that morning that there is a local superstition associated with the bridge - if you made a wish and walked across the bridge for the first time while holding your breath, the wish would come true. I was glad to have learned of this *before* seeing the bridge, so I gamely played along, made a wish and the walked across the bridge in a single breath. I was caught behind a couple taking a photo and had to rush towards the end - I don't think the wish would come true if I passed out along the way!

After crossing the bridge I climbed a set of stairs to reach the Barranco Plaza and Parroquia La Santisima Cruz. The plaza was teeming with people, very few of which were tourists. I took several photos of the outside of the parish and continued walking south. I took a brief detour in the [Electricity Museum](http://www.electroperu.com.pe/home.aspx) operated by the local power utility, however it wasn't a super large museum and I only spent 10 or 15 minutes there. I walked a few more blocks south to reach my final museum of the afternoon - the Mario Testino Museum, aka [MATE](https://www.mate.pe/en/). This museum celebrates the works of Peruvian photographer Mario Testino, who I had previously never heard of. The gallery was interesting to see - the photographer clearly has a distinct style and it was neat to see his different styles of work. I spent about an hour in the museum in total.

By this point it was about 16:30, and I decided to begin the walk back to Miraflores. Along the way I took a detour under the Puente de los Suspiros and walked down to the Playa Barranco, where I was treated to some beautiful views of the coast and beaches leading north towards Miraflores. The sun was lower in the sky by this point so I walked back along the coast, taking in the wonderful views and the parks that sit between the road and the cliff which separates the beaches from the city of Lima proper. The walk back took about 40 minutes; and I ended up back at the Larcomar shopping complex. I was determined to find a hat, and after a bit of exploring I ended up gettin a hat (on sale, no less!) from Levis. This task completed, I decided to find dinner.

I was feeling like more Peruvian food, and I ended up choosing a well-reviewed ceviche restaurant named [Punta Azul](http://puntoazulrestaurante.com/). It was quite close to my hotel, which was a nice bonus! I arrived shortly after 18:00 and ordered the ceviche Punto Azul 'mixto' - which combined both fish and other seafood (including octopus, and shrimp) cooked in the traditional lemons and limes with a house sauce. I also had a Pisco sour to drink. The meal itself was delicious and very filling - I was able to finish the seafood but couldn't finish the sweet potato and corn that was served with it. I left the restaurant around 19:30 and walked back to the hotel. I quickly met up with Todd and we went for a walk around a couple blocks in Miraflores; then I returned to my hotel room where I did some homework, watched a bit of TV then went to bed shortly after 22:00.
 
