+++
date = "2020-02-12T20:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 4"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

Once again I was up at 7:00 for another day of school. I had another leisurely breakfast and browsed the Internet a bit before heading into class. The first half of the class consisted of us learning and talking about a number of different foods and ingredients. We wrote out what we normally purchase at the grocery store, what we liked to cook, etc. Once we were done we each read out our paragraphs and then asked each other questions about them. We talked about the foods we had tried here in Peru and what was left to try.

The morning break at 11:00 was a bit different today as they ran a quiz game where 10 questions were presented on the screen, and everyone was able to use their phone to select what they thought was the correct answer to the question. It was quite similar in some respects to the [Jackbox](https://jackbox.tv/) party game I'd played with friends back home. I did pretty well, coming in 6th out of 14 players. After the break we went through our homework and reviewed the different nationalities, then spent the remainder of the class on two topics: describing objects in relation to one another, and describing common objects in a house. The combination of both topics made for some interesting descriptions, but it was quite engaging.

I left the school per usual at 13:00 and went back to the hotel room for a quick lunch. I was feeling a bit tired this afternoon, so I decided to have a quiet day and not see any sights. I took a nap for about an hour, then spent the next couple of hours reviewing the travel itinerary for the remainder of the trip and worked on this blog.

Shortly after 17:00 I decided to go and purchase a Claro SIM. When I was planning for the trip I was intending to use my work SIM to access the Internet, since my plan included international roaming to a number of countries (including Peru), however on the first day I discovered that roaming was not working properly and my phone was unable to connect. I had gotten by for the first few days just using Wi-Fi, however there were a number of places I wanted to go that required an Uber trip back from and depending on all the museums having Wi-Fi was a risk I wasn't comfortable taking. I therefore decided a prepaid SIM card was the best choice. There was a Claro store just a block away from my hotel, so with my passport in hand I walked over. The process of getting a prepaid SIM was actually very simple - the longest part of the process was waiting for a teller to assist me. The Claro store was configured much like a bank in Canada is - there were a number of desks setup with people working at them, and when you first entered the store you spoke to someone who took your information and put you into the queue. When your number was called, you went to the designated desk and spoke with a salesperson. I had to wait about 20 minutes for a teller, however once I got up to the lady it was very easy to ask for a SIM card, confirmed the amount of data I wanted, and then got a slip with the cost. I had to take this to a cashier who collected my money. It was only 25 soles for a SIM and 2 GB of data - roughly $10 CAD. Once I had paid I went back to the salesperson who retrieved the new SIM, swapped the SIMs in my phone, and confirmed things were good to go! It was nice to have data again, and I didn't even need to configure an APN. The data was set to expire after 30 days, but with only 11 days remaiing this wasn't a big concern. I walked out of the store before 18:00, returned my passport to the hotel, then went to find dinner.

I decided to do a bit of walking around Kennedy Park to look for options, and ultimately settled on [La Lucha](http://lalucha.com.pe/), a sandwich bar across from Kennedy Park. I ordered the Chichurron sandwich, which contained fried pork, a friend sweet potato, and red onions on a chiabatta-like bun. It took about 10 minutes for the sandwich and the Coke I ordered to be delivered, and I ate outside the restaurant on a stool. It was a delcious sandwich, and would highly recommend to others.

I then wandered around Kennedy Park a bit as the sun started to set. I got to see the lights turn on at Parroquia La Virgen Milagrosa, which was pretty, as well as at the Miraflores City Hall. I returned to the hotel around 19:30 to do some Spanish homework and then book a hotel for the last couple of nights of the trip. I went to bed shortly after 22:00. It was a less hectic day but a productive one. I also managed to avoid making the sunburn worse!

