+++
date = "2020-02-13T22:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 5"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

Thursday started the same as the rest of the week - my alarm went off at 7:00, I had a quick breakfast in the hotel, got dressed and walked to the school for 9:00. We started the class by tasting a drink we had learned about yesterday - warm quinoa in a juice. This is apparently a common breakfast in Lima; and it was pretty much what one would imagine it looks like - cooked quinoa suspended in a thick liquid. It was pretty good and quite sweet, normally apple or pear juice is mixed in to add flavour. Once we had our drinks out of the way, the class continued to expand on the description of objects in relation to one another, and then expanded to include giving directions. We practiced directing each other around Miraflores, using printed maps and some places of interest as the foundation for the exercise. It was actually pretty fun and did a good job cementing the concepts.

The morning break gave us the opportunity to try a number of different foods typical to Peru. There were a few fruits, including aguaymanto (an orange-coloured fruit that was a similar shape and size to a grape tomato) and tuna (not the fish, but a fruit that is picked from a prickly pear cactus); as well as cancha salada (fried and seasoned corn kernels), maná (popcorn with a sweet syrup drizzled over it), and some tamales. There was also chincha morada (a purple-coloured sweet drink made from corn) to try. Everything was interesting to try, though I would say that the aguaymanto and the cancha were probably my favourites.

The second half of the class focused on using estar with gerundios - verbs describing actions currently being taken. As expected there were both regular and irregular verbs, and so a bit of time was spent conjugating them and then using them when speaking with one another. We also covered the difference between que and hay, and when to use each of the different forms for counting (cuánto, cuántos, cuánta and cuántas). We left the class just after 13:00 with 4 exercises to complete for homework.

I went back to the hotel and had a quick bite to eat. I then called and Uber and headed off to my destination for the afternoon, the [Fortaleza Real Felipe](http://www.realfelipe.com/). The Fortaleza (or fort) was a defensive structure constructed in Lima during the Spanish colonial period to protect the harbour, and I was curious to see it in person. About halfway to the Fort I started chatting with my Uber driver (in Spanish, as he didn't know any English), and during the course of our conversation I learned that the area the fort is located in a fairly rough neighbourhood and he advised that I leave before about 18:00. As we got closer to the fort I understood his warning - the buildings alongside the road changed into partially abandoned and partially torn down structures that reminded me a lot of driving on the outskirts of Tijuana. At one point we drove through an impromtu market on a side street and Uber driver took his phone off of the holster on the dashboard and moved it down into his lap - I took this as a sign that even he was worried it may be an issue to be visible. We arrived at the fort without any issues, and I walked into the safety of the fort without issue.

As I was entering the fort I realized that the fort was still in active use by the Peruvian military, as there were soldiers stationed at the gates and inside the walls performing drills. I hadn't expected this, but the soldiers were all friendly and guided me to the entrance of the museum. I went inside and purchased a ticket, and several minutes later a tour started. The tour was only in Spanish, but I was able to understand a bit of it so I decided to tag along. I had arrived shortly after 14:15, and the tour itself got underway at 14:30. The tour guide took us on a walk around the perimeter wall, with the first major point of interest being the Governor's Mansion. This structure is built into the back wall of the structure, and is where the administrative staff lived and worked. There are now a number of exhibits showing some pre-colonial warfare history, and then colonial and intependence-era battles and information in the rooms here. We spent about 15 or 20 minutes in this building before continuing on. The tour continued around the perimiter of the fort, and the guide was spoke a bit about the more modern history of the Peruvian army. There was a short break about 2/3rds of the way around the wall, and then the tour concluded with us going through the King's Tower - one of the two major defensive towers built in the fort. This was used originally to defend the fort, and then later became the site of a prison where political prisoners were held. The top of the tower gave a fantastic view of the fort, the port, and the city of Callao. Overall the tour took about 90 minutes, and was pretty interesting. The fort itself was an incredibly impressive structure - the walls were wide enough for a two-lane road to run on them, and the parade grounds inside the fort were enormous. The structure definitely felt like it would have kept the city safe from pirates!

After completing the tour it was after 16:00, and the only other site in the area I had hoped to visit closed at 16:30, so I decided to head back to the hotel. I called an Uber without issue, and after a bit of a slowdown due to rush-hour traffic in Lima I was back at my hotel shortly before 17:00. I spent the next hour or so completing my homework, then I decided to go for a walk and find dinner.

I had reviewed the recommendations that Peruwayna had given for things to do and places to eat, and I decided to have dinner at a restaurant named [Pardo's Chicken](https://www.pardoschicken.pe/). It took me about 30 minutes to walk to the restaurant, and I arrived shortly after 18:30. I ordered their roast chicken with anticucho. I had learned about anticucho in class earlier in the week - it is a skewer with pieces of grilled cow heart. The meal came pretty quickly, and both the chicken and the anticuchos were delicious. It felt kind of like a slightly nicer Swiss Chalet, actually. I left the restaurant shortly after 19:15 and called an Uber to my final destination of the day.

I had read good things about a fountain and light show that takes place in a park in Lima, named [Circuito Mágico del Agua](https://www.circuitomagicodelagua.com.pe/) and so I decided to head there after dinner. My Uber arrived after only several minutes of waiting, and we set off for the park. I had seen that traffic was bad and I expected the drive to take about 40 minutes, however it ended up taking almost an hour. Several of the roads Google wanted us to take were blocked off, and I ended up discussing the best option with the driver and he let me out on the far side of the park to avoid further delays. It was a short, 5 minute walk up a street to the entrace of the park, where I paid only 4 soles to get in.

The park had a bit of a carnival theme to it - there were a large number of vendors outside the gates selling little toys with blinking and multi-coloured lights, along with other vendors selling food and snacks. Inside the park there were tons of people, a lot of families with children, a few wedding partieis having photos taken, and a number of people just walking around on their own. It was probably the liveliest place I'd been in Lima to this point. The fountains themselves were quite a site to behold - overall there were 10 major fountains with lights and displays, and several smaller ones. There were a couple of kid-friendly waterpark areas where kids could go, get wet, slash water on their friends, etc. in addition to the normal fountains. I spent about 75 minutes walking around the park, taking photos and enjoying myself. They had a scheduled laser light and water show set to run at 19:15, 20:15 and 21:15, and the park closed at 22:30. I had unfortunately missed the 20:15 show due to the traffic issues, however I caught the first half of the 21:15 show. It was really very impressive - there were a number of laser projectors set behind a long row of fountains spraying mist into the air, which allowed them to project moving images on the water 'screen'. It was set to music and was very entertaining. I decided to leave shortly after 21:45, as I believed the show was wrapping up and I hoped to catch an Uber before all the families left and added to the traffic chaos I experienced on the way in.

I called for an Uber around 21:50, and it showed up just a few minutes later. We avoided any big traffic issues on the way back to the hotel. As we were driving away from the park we passed the National Stadium of Peru, and I saw a number of police officers with riot shields out stationed around the fence of the stadium. I asked if there was a soccer game on, and my driver informed me that it was actually a music concert. This helped explain all the traffic and the closed roads earlier in the evening - they were trying to manage all the people attending the concert, and I just happened to get caught up in it. I got home just after 22:10, had a quick call with Todd, then headed to bed, exhausted from the long day.

