+++
date = "2020-02-14T22:00:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 6"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

My last day of school started much as the previous 4 had. I woke up at 7:00, had breakfast at the hotel, got ready and then walked to the Peruwayna office, a block away from my hotel. I arrived a few minutes early, and took a quick look through my notes while I waited for the class to begin. We quickly reviewed the homework, and since there were no issues we moved onto the first topic of the day.

We began by reviewing how to tell time, specifically being able to answer the question ¿Que hora es? (what time is it). Telling time in Spanish happens to be fairly straightforward, however there are a few things we had to keep in mind. A small example - the afternoon 'ends' at 7 PM; times before 7 PM occur 'de la tarde' (in the afternoon), while times after 7 PM occur 'de la noche' (in the evening). There is also the ability to say 'minutes until', i.e. 6:45 AM is also 15 minutes to 7 AM. Working through this took the first hour or so, we spent much of the time describing different times to each other. We next covered 'verbos reflexivos', or reflexive verbs. Like most languages there are both regular and irregular conjugations of some common reflexive verbs, and we covered these. This was followed by the break.

After the break we resumed, and started by writing down a story that described a normal day for us in Lima. This allowed us to practice both saying times as well as using the reflexive verbs to describe what we were doing at those times. I ended up writing about a page's worth of notes; we spent about 15 minutes writing and having Erica quickly review our descriptions. We then read them to each other, and asked some questions about specifics. Combining the writing, reading and asking together seemed to be a really effective way to cement the concepts! We finished the class by reviewing the difference between Qué and Cuál and when to use which. In a similar fashion we wrote down some questions using each of the different forms of 'what', and then asked and answered these questions. The class ended shortly after 13:00, and to mark the end of my time at the school I was given a certificate saying that I had completed the A1.2 level in Spanish. Overall I felt that the course was very well run and completely worthwhile to attend!

After leaving the school and dropping my things off at the hotel I had a quick bite to eat and then began my afternoon. I started by packing up my dirty laundry and walking to a laundromat a few blocks from my hotel. I had packed a number of things for the trip, but wanted to make sure I had as many clean pairs of socks as I could before we headed off to Cusco. I found a laundromat named [Saori Lavanderías](https://es-la.facebook.com/SaoriLavanderias) that provided a wash and dry service by the kilogram; and they were able to have my clothes ready for pickup the next day. I had 2.4 kg of clothes that were already dirty - a number which surprised me!

After dropping off my clothes I began walking to the [Huaca Pucllana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huaca_Pucllana) museum. I arrived right at 15:00, just in time for a tour in English to start. This pyramid was originally built by the Lima people between 200 AD and 700 AD, and is built entirely from hand-crafted clay bricks. At its height the pyramid is estimated to have been 30 m tall; today it is only 22 m in height. We walked around the perimiter of the complex initially, getting a bit of history of the people and the temple, and then climbed to the top of the temple and were granted a fantastic view of the surrounding neighbourhoods. Apparently this temple was only rediscovered in the 70's - prior to that the structure was assumed to have been sand dunes because the winds had blown so much dirt and dust into the structure it was unrecognizable. This is actually visible on one side of the pyramid - they have only excavated part of the structure and archeologists are continuing to excavate the site today. The excavation process is slow going, however, because only small brushes can be used to avoid breaking down the bricks. As mentioned, the bricks were all constructed by hand using locally available dirt and seashells (to provide the limestone required to bind the clay together), however they are still quite fragile. It is believed the only reason the structure is still standing is that Lima gets less than 20 mm of rain per year - the structure would likely not withstand heavy rainfalls. I was super glad that I had liberally applied sunscreen before heading to the museum, as the entire ~75 minute tour took place outside with no shade.

I left Huaca Pucllana shortly after 16:15, and decided to start thinking about dinner. It was Valentine's Day, and I figured it may be difficult to get a table at a restaurant. I decided to head to [Tanta](https://tantaperu.com/)  in the Lancomar shopping complex, as the school had recommended it as a place to try lomo saltado, a classic Peruvian dish. It was about 30 minutes to walk to Lancomar from Huaca Pucllana; and I got to the restaurant shortly before 17:00. I had to wait a few minutes to get a table, but when I was seated I was treated to a fantastic view of the Pacific Ocean. I ordered the lomo saltado and a lemonade, and thoroughly enjoyed both when they arrived. I didn't stick around the restaurant long after I was finished eating, and was walking back to my hotel shortly after 18:00. I took a quick detour to the McDonalds across from Kennedy Park to get an ice cream cone for dessert on the way!

Back at the hotel I spent some time writing up the previous day's events in my blog and just generally relaxing. I watched some Netflix once I'd finished journaling, then I decided to head out and celebrate Valentine's Day with a cocktail. There was a small bar beside my hotel that I had walked by every morning on the way to class, and I decided to check it out. I arrived shortly after 21:00, and was able to find a seat on their rooftop patio. There was a live DJ playing a combination of Latin-remixed North American pop with entirely Latin songs, and he had quite an enjoyable beat going. I ordered a cocktail and slowly sipped it while I enjoyed the music and the warm Lima evening air. I left about an hour later, making it back to the hotel shortly before 22:00.

I had a quick call with Todd to wish him a Happy Valentine's Day, then I spent the rest of the evening watching Netflix. I discovered that Peruvian Netflix had the first half of the most recent season (Season 4 at the time) of Rick & Morty available while browsing, and I quickly watched the first three episodes before falling asleep exhausted from the day.

