+++
date = "2020-02-15T20:30:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 7"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

This was the last full day of this part of the trip in Lima, and I had a lot planned. I slept in a bit, waking up shortly after 8:00, and had breakfast in the hotel restaurant. It was a fait bit busier than it had been during the week - I suspect it was a combination of both the later time and the fact that it was a weekend. I had a relaxing breakfast, then returned to my room. I wanted another episode of Rick & Morty, had a shower and headed out for the day right at 10:00. My first stop of the day was the [Museo de Arte de Lima (MALI)](http://www.mali.pe/). It took about 30 minutes for my Uber driver to get there from the hotel - it turned out that traffic was busy even on weekends.

I had a brief conversation with the Uber driver on the way, and he let me know that he wouldn't be letting me out at the actual address of the museum, as it was located in a park and the entrance to the museum was actually through the park. He dropped me off at the entrace to the Parque de la Exposición, which was a lovely park in the middle of Lima. They were actually setting up a stage to one side of the park for what appeared to be a music concert later in the evening; as I was walking from the entrance of the park to the museum I heard them doing sound level checks with some rock music. When I arrived at the museum entrance I paid for my ticket, deposited my backpack with the coat check, and then walked up to the second story where I began my tour.

The museum has art from every period of Peru's history - starting with the pre-dynastic societies up to today. There was a wealth of knowledge contained within the exhibits, and I spent about 3 hours total going through them all. The second floor was structured as a box, with each side of the box being a large corridor that held some smaller areas divided off to cover a specific time period or culture. Overall there were 37 different sections, and the quality of the art was incredible. It was without a doubt one of the best art museums that I had visited, and I would strongly encourage anyone visiting Lima to set aside an afternoon to visit MALI.

I wrapped up the museum shortly after 13:30, retrieved my backpack and walked back through the park. I had a quick snack while I waited for my Uber, and shortly before 13:45 was on my way to the second museum of the day - the [Museo Pedro de Osma](http://museopedrodeosma.org/). This museum was actually located a very short walk away from MATE (which I visited earlier in the week). When I arrived and purchased a ticket I learned they actually had a deal with MATE and I could have gotten a better entrance price if I had visited them on the same day - a lesson for future travellers! I arrived at the museum at 14:15, and I spent about an hour visiting the 11 different exhibit rooms. This museum is located in the building which used to be the summer home of Pedro de Osma Gildemeister, a Peruvian art collector who focused on artwork from the viceregal period (post-colonization but pre-independence). There was a lot of very impressive pieces of art - due to the time period the vast majority of it was Catholic in nature, and many of the pieces were very well done. There was a separate building at the back of the exhibit which showed some pre-colonization art, including pieces from the Inca, Nazca, the Paracas and the Wari. The museum was well done, and I enjoyed the visit.

I ordered an Uber shortly before 15:30, and arrived at the final museum of the day at 15:45. This museum, the [Amano Pre-Columbian Textile Museum](http://www.museoamano.org/), focused on the weaving and textile working of the pre-colonization period of Peruvian history. The museum had a number of textile works from the pre-Columbian tribes that lived in the mountains, the coast, and the middle parts of the country, and provided some interesting historical context into why certain trends appeared amongst all the civilations. I learned that the ancient Peruvians were some of the best weavers in the ancient world, and were able to weave fabric with a 300 thread count by hand, using hand-spun thread. They had several of these pieces on display, and they were quite impressive. There were also some fabrics completely covered with dyed bird feathers - apparently they domesticated and raised birds and then fed them different foods to have the feathers change colour! I spent about an hour walking through this musuem, and left shortly before it closed at 16:45.

After leaving the museum I began my walk back to the general area of my hotel. The clothing I had dropped off at the laundry the day before was due to be ready at 18:00, so I used that as my general target. It took me about 25 minutes minutes to walk from the textile museum to Kennedy Park, and seeing that it was only 17:10 I decided to get an ice cream cone at McDonalds as a treat. I spent about 10 minutes in the McDonalds, before continuing on. I reached the laundry shortly after 17:30, and inquired if my clothes were ready - as it turns out they were, so I was able to pick them up and head back to my hotel by 17:45.

I spent the next hour or so working on my blog, re-packing my bag and generally relaxing after a long day of museums. At about 18:45 I started looking for dinner options, and was also chatting with Todd. I learned that his coworkers had all decided they weren't doing dinner, so he was looking for something to do. We met up and headed to the [Barra Maretazo](https://barramaretazo.com/) restaurant, quite close to where Todd had been staying. I ordered a fish ceviche dish while Todd had a 'popcorn chicken' like dish. They were both delicious. We spent about an hour having dinner, and then parted ways. I was back in the hotel around 20:30, where I finished up blogging, packing, and then watched a bit of TV before bed.

