+++
date = "2020-02-16T21:30:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 8"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
flights = [ "LA2077" ]
+++

This was the day that we flew to Cusco, the other major city we were visiting this trip! I had set my alarm for 6:00, however I actually woke up several moments before my alarm. I hadn't slept well the evening before - I had a bit of a cold that had gone from being just a sore throat to sinus congestion in the previous evening, and I had trouble breathing through my nose. I got up, had a hot shower (which helped with the congestion a bit), had a quick breakfast, then finished packing and headed down to the lobby. I checked out at 7:15, Todd met up with me at the hotel at 7:20, and our cab picked us up right at 7:30.

Traffic looked fine on the map, and for the first three quarters of the drive we were flying. Our driver was quite aggressive - he was speeding a lot but I couldn't fault his efficiency. Once we were off the highway and on the road up to the airport, however, we ran into a traffic accident that was causing a big slowdown. This is where our driver shone - he was weaving in and out of cars in order to get ahead as quickly as he could. It was pretty funny watching him speed past and then cut off a police SUV - that definitely wouldn't have flown back home, but the police didn't seem too phased by it. Even though there was a slowdown the driver pulled up to the airport a few minutes after 8:00. We had no issues checking in or dropping off our bags - there was a bit of a line but it went pretty quickly. We cleared security without issue and were waiting at our gate around 8:30. Our flight was scheduled to board at 10:15, so we had a bit of time to kill - we both read a bit and waited for boarding to begin. They changed our gate about thirty inutes before boarding was due to begin and we had to relocate in the terminal, but there was a lot of seating and it wasn't an issue.

We made it onto the plane and found space in the overhead bins for our bags. We were in Zone 6 of 7, but by the time we had put our bags away things were getting pretty full. We were flying on LATAM, and while the plane was a well updated A320 the configuration didn't leave a lot of room between the rows. I was just barely able to sit with my legs forward, Todd had to keep his slightly offset since he didn't fit. The plane took off a few minutes behind schedule, but we made good time in the air and landed shortly after 12:15. The approach and landing was quite bumpy - some of the most turblence I've experienced that I can recall. I imagine the winds coming off the mountains make things tricky, but we had no issues. The plane had to decelerate HARD once we had touched down - a folded up blanket or similar got loose from the galley at the back and made its way almost to the front of the plane due to the force of the deceleration.

We deplaned without issue, walked through the termainal and made it to the baggage carousel. Unlike Lima our bags were waiting for us, which was a nice surprise. We also went to the IncaRail kiosk in the airport and picked up our tickets for the train trip to Machu Picchu that I had booked; this was something we needed to do in person and I figured doing it while we were at the airport was going to be easiest.

We stepped outside the terminal and tried to call an Uber. This was actually the first real bump in the trip from my perspective. The first Uber driver cancelled on us; after we figured out that Uber drivers don't pull into the airport road (there were gates separating it from the main road) we decided to walk to the main road and try again. The second driver was coming to get us but someone else got into the car and he left without us; we tried one more time but the driver was unable to find us and we had to cancel. We spent about 30 minutes trying to get a ride before we decided to give up and just take one of the cabs. It ended up only costing 15 soles to get to our hotel, just off the Plaza De Armas in the historic centre of Cusco; it was about a 15 minute drive.

I had booked the [Hotel Costa Del Sol Ramada Cusco](https://www.wyndhamhotels.com/ramada/cusco-peru/hotel-costa-del-sol-ramada-cusco/overview), and when we arrived we were greeted by the size of a large stone wall and a large open blue door. Many of the buildings in Cusco appeared to follow the classic Spanish architecture of large stone walls with terracotta roves, and our hotel was no exception. When we stepped into the entrance we were greeted with a view of a beautiful courtyard that looked very inviting to relax in. We checked in without issue, made our way to our room, and did a bit of unpacking.

It was after 14:00 by this point, and we were both hungry, so we decided to get lunch at a close restaurant. We settled on a burger restaurant named [Fuego](https://www.facebook.com/fuegorestaurantcusco/) less than a block from our hotel. We easily found a table, and ordered some food. I had an alpaca burger, while Todd had a regular burger with pulled pork and bacon on top. The food was really really good, and hit the spot after the trip.

We headed back to the hotel and decided to take a nap. I was feeling exhausted from the cold, and was happy to take a couple hours to relax. We napped until about 19:00, at which time we got up and did a bit of walking around the Plaza De Armas. We had a quick snack with ice cream at a McDonads, but neither of us were starving after the large lunch we had later in the day. We returned to the hotel around 20:30, then relaxed and watched a bit of TV before bed.

