+++
date = "2020-02-17T18:20:00-05:00"
draft = true
title = "Peru Day 9"
categories = [ "Travel", "Peru", "2020 Peru Trip" ]
+++

This was our first full day in Cusco. We slept in a bit, but were up and having breakfast by 9:00. The restaurant breakfast was a buffet that had a number of good options; we spent about 20 minutes eating before wrapping up and heading out for the day.

We had decided to spend the day acclimatizing to Cusco and not doing anything too crazy. We started by walking from our hotel to [Saqsaywaman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sacsayhuam%C3%A1n), a huge Incan stone structure overlooking Cusco. We initially expected to arrive after about 15 minutes worth of walking (Google's time estimate), however as we started along the walk we realized it was going to take quite a bit longer. The path from the Plaza de Armas to Saqsaywaman is very steep, and the altitude made us breathe quite a bit heavier than normal. We stopped for several small breaks along the way - first at Iglesia San Cristobal, and again shortly after the walking path to Saqsaywaman diverges from the road. We arrived at the ticket control point around 10:20, purchased our ticket, then began exploring. We chose not to enlist a guide during our tour of the complex - we were happy just to explore on our own.

We started by taking a walking path along the left hand side of the complex towards a lookout. This path circled around the complex, howeve when we reached the viewpoint we were treated to a spectacular view over all Cusco. You could really see the Spanish influence in the architecture of the town - basically all the buildings have the same red clay tile roofs, and the style of the interconnected buildings was very reminiscent of Europe. We continued along the lookout path until we reached the Saqsaywaman complex again. Here we were able to explore the ruins in more detail - seeing the foundational remains of a number of different buildings that were clearly interconnected. There was not much more than the foundation that remained - the Spanish had taken much of the structure to build up Cusco when they had defeated the Incans. We continued along towards the 'back' of the complex, where more of the foundation of the complex remained in place. Presumably the Spanish decided these stones were too big to try and move - in some places they were over 2 metres tall and at least a metre wide. There were multiple pathways that still existed amongst the ruins that we explored.

We left the large complex of buildings and crossed a grassy field to explore Suchuna and Qocha next. These were still part of the Saqsaywaman complex, however Suchuna was a partially terraced hill that is situated behind the stone complex; just behind that is Qocha which is a large circular grassy amphitheatre. I did some research after the fact to learn more about Qocha, and apparently its use is still being debated by archeologists today - there is one school of thought which believes this used to be a water resevoir, while another believes it wsa an amphitheatre used for worship. Either way, it was neat to explore. We encountered some wild llamas grazing on our walk. We also explored the small passageways built into the ground near Qocha - some of these were almost caves that required some careful navigation to make your way through. Overall it was a very worthwhile place to visit - we spent about 2 hours here before moving on shortly after noon.

The next site of the day we visited was Q'enqo. This archeological site was about a 1 km walk from Saqsaywaman, and it took us about 15-20 minutes to get there. While we were walking we picked up a bit of an escort - a dog started walking with us as we left Saqsaywaman and stuck with us through our exploration of Q'enqo. We ended up naming him Perriwinkle - loosely inspired by the Spanish word for dog (perro). When we reached Q'enqo we had our tickets verified by the staff there, then began exploring the site. This site is one of the holy sites in the Incan religion, where sacrifices were made. The complex is carved from a large stone monolith; there are a number of caves and subterranean rooms that you can walk through and imagine what may have occurred here in the past.

We spent about 30 minutes here at Q'enqo - it was not nearly as elaborate as Saqsaywaman but it was still impressive none the less. Perriwinkle stuck with us through the site, and only left us as we began the walk back into town. It was after 13:00 when we started back towards Cusco, and we arrived back near the Plaza de Armas shortly before 14:00. We found a restaurant to have lunch at, a pizza place named [La Bodega 138](https://www.labodega138.com/). We were both a bit dehydrated from the walk, so we ordered a pitcher of orange juice, then Todd had a pizza while I had a calzone. We finished eating shortly after 14:30 then headed back to the hotel.

We ended up spending the next couple of hours relaxing in the hotel. Something we had eaten at lunch wasn't sitting well, so we decided to have a quiet afternoon indoors. We took a short nap, read, and just relaxed in the hotel. After a few hours rest we decided to head out and see the Cusco Cathedral, which was just off the Plaza de Armas and was a quick walk from our hotel.

We were able to get our tickets to the cathedral at the door, and spent about an hour exploring the 3 halls that made up this structure. It was filled with colonial-era Catholic artwork, mostly depicting classic Catholic scenes, but there were also portraits of saints, cardinals, and other important individuals in the Church. There were a number of incredibly elaborate altars that held sculptures of Jesus, Mary, St. Peter and others. There was one area which held a large number of silver instruments of worship - apparently over 300 lbs of silver was used to construct the different instruments. There was a very ornate section for the choir to sit in, with 56 carved wooden chairs. It was very impressive, however it also seemed a bit impractical for a normal place of worship and I was curious how much of it was used vs. how much of it was simply on display for tours?

Around 17:30 we left the church. Neither Todd nor I was hungry, but we decided to pick up a few snacks at a grocery store to have in the hotel room in case we got hungry later. We picked up some apples, plantains, and some chocolate crackers to snack on, then returned to the hotel. We had a quiet evening in, and went to bed early as we had an early start the next morning.


